ql Twn)
\lgorithms

OSUPRETEH aE. Dilek

ROBERT SEDGEWICK | KEVIN WAYNE

--- Page 1 ---


This page intentionally left blank

--- Page 2 ---


Algorithms

FOURTH EDITION

--- Page 3 ---


This page intentionally left blank

--- Page 4 ---


Algorithms

FOURTH EDITION

Robert Sedgewick
and
Kevin Wayne

Princeton University

vv Addison-Wesley

Upper Saddle River, NJ * Boston ¢ Indianapolis * San Francisco
New York * Toronto * Montreal * London * Munich * Paris * Madrid
Capetown * Sydney * Tokyo + Singapore * Mexico City

--- Page 5 ---


Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as
trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book, and the publisher was aware of a trademark
claim, the designations have been printed with initial capital letters or in all capitals.

The authors and publisher have taken care in the preparation of this book, but make no expressed or im-
plied warranty of any kind and assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. No liability is assumed
for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the use of the information or
programs contained herein.

The publisher offers excellent discounts on this book when ordered in quantity for bulk purchases or
special sales, which may include electronic versions and/or custom covers and content particular to your
business, training goals, marketing focus, and branding interests. For more information, please contact:

U.S. Corporate and Government Sales
(800) 382-3419
corpsales@pearsontechgroup.com

For sales outside the United States, please contact:

International Sales
jnternational@pearson.com

Visit us on the Web: informit.com/aw

Cataloging-in-Publication Data is on file with the Library of Congress.

Copyright © 2011 Pearson Education, Inc.

All rights reserved. Printed in the United States of America. This publication is protected by copyright,
and permission must be obtained from the publisher prior to any prohibited reproduction, storage in
a retrieval system, or transmission in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, or likewise. For information regarding permissions, write to:

Pearson Education, Inc.

Rights and Contracts Department
501 Boylston Street, Suite 900
Boston, MA 02116

Fax: (617) 671-3447

ISBN-13: 978-0-321-57351-3

ISBN-10: 0-321-57351-X

Text printed in the United States on recycled paper at Courier in Westford, Massachusetts.
First printing, March 2011

--- Page 6 ---


To Adam, Andrew, Brett, Robbie
and especially Linda

To Jackie and Alex


--- Page 7 ---


CONTENTS

Preface. 2. 1 ee ee

1 Fundamentals

1.1
1.2
1.3

3 Searching

3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5

vi

Basic Programming Model
Data Abstraction

Bags, Queues, and Stacks
Analysis of Algorithms
Case Study: Union-Find

Elementary Sorts
Mergesort
Quicksort
Priority Queues

Applications

Symbol Tables
Binary Search Trees
Balanced Search Trees

Hash Tables
Applications

--- Page 8 ---


5 Strings
5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4
5.5

6 Context

Undirected Graphs
Directed Graphs
Minimum Spanning Trees

Shortest Paths

String Sorts

Tries

Substring Search
Regular Expressions

Data Compression

vii

--- Page 9 ---


vill

PREFACE

his book is intended to survey the most important computer algorithms in use today,
and to teach fundamental techniques to the growing number of people in need of
knowing them. It is intended for use as a textbook for a second course in computer
science, after students have acquired basic programming skills and familiarity with computer
systems. The book also may be useful for self-study or as a reference for people engaged in
the development of computer systems or applications programs, since it contains implemen-
tations of useful algorithms and detailed information on performance characteristics and
clients. The broad perspective taken makes the book an appropriate introduction to the field.

THE STUDY OF ALGORITHMS AND DATA STRUCTURES is fundamental to any computer-
science curriculum, but it is not just for programmers and computer-science students. Every-
one who uses a computer wants it to run faster or to solve larger problems. The algorithms
in this book represent a body of knowledge developed over the last 50 years that has become
indispensable. From N-body simulation problems in physics to genetic-sequencing problems
in molecular biology, the basic methods described here have become essential in scientific
research; from architectural modeling systems to aircraft simulation, they have become es-
sential tools in engineering; and from database systems to internet search engines, they have
become essential parts of modern software systems. And these are but a few examples—as the
scope of computer applications continues to grow, so grows the impact of the basic methods
covered here.

Before developing our fundamental approach to studying algorithms, we develop data
types for stacks, queues, and other low-level abstractions that we use throughout the book.
Then we survey fundamental algorithms for sorting, searching, graphs, and strings. The last
chapter is an overview placing the rest of the material in the book in a larger context.

--- Page 10 ---


