ql Twn ) \lgorithms OSUPRETEH aE . Dilek ROBERT SEDGEWICK | KEVIN WAYNE -- - Page 1 -- - This page intentionally left blank -- - Page 2 -- - Algorithms FOURTH EDITION -- - Page 3 -- - Page 4 Algorithms FOURTH EDITION Robert Sedgewick and Kevin Wayne Princeton University vv Addison-Wesley Upper Saddle River , NJ * Boston ¢ Indianapolis * San Francisco New York * Toronto * Montreal * London * Munich * Paris * Madrid Capetown * Sydney * Tokyo + Singapore * Mexico City -- - Page 5 -- - Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks . Where those designations appear in this book , and the publisher was aware of a trademark claim , the designations have been printed with initial capital letters or in all capitals . The authors and publisher have taken care in the preparation of this book , but make no expressed or im- plied warranty of any kind and assume no responsibility for errors or omissions . No liability is assumed for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the use of the information or programs contained herein . The publisher offers excellent discounts on this book when ordered in quantity for bulk purchases or special sales , which may include electronic versions and/or custom covers and content particular to your business , training goals , marketing focus , and branding interests . For more information , please contact : U.S. Corporate and Government Sales ( 800 ) 382-3419 [ REDACTED ] For sales outside the United States please contact : International Sales [ REDACTED ] Visit us on the Web : informit.com/aw Cataloging-in-Publication Data is on file with the Library of Congress . Copyright © 2011 Pearson Education , Inc. All rights reserved . Printed in the United States of America . This publication is protected by copyright , and permission must be obtained from the publisher prior to any prohibited reproduction , storage in a retrieval system , or transmission in any form or by any means , electronic , mechanical , photocopying , recording , or likewise . For information regarding permissions , write to : Education , Inc. Rights and Contracts Department 501 Boylston Street , Suite 900 Boston , MA 02116 Fax : ( 617 ) 671-3447 ISBN-13 : [ REDACTED ] ISBN-10 : 0-321-57351-X Text printed the United States on recycled paper at Courier in Westford , Massachusetts . First printing , March 2011 -- - Page 6 -- - To Adam , Andrew , Brett , Robbie and especially Linda To Jackie and Alex -- - Page 7 -- - CONTENTS Preface . 2 . 1 ee ee 1 Fundamentals 1.1 1.2 1.3 3 Searching 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 vi Basic Programming Model Data Abstraction Bags , Queues , and Stacks Analysis of Algorithms Case Study : Union-Find Elementary Sorts Mergesort Quicksort Priority Queues Applications Symbol Tables Binary Search Trees Balanced Search Trees Hash Tables Applications -- - Page 8 -- - 5 Strings 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 6 Context Undirected Graphs Directed Graphs Minimum Spanning Trees Shortest Paths String Sorts Tries Substring Search Regular Expressions Data Compression vii -- - Page 9 -- - vill PREFACE his book is intended to survey the most important computer algorithms in use today , and to teach fundamental techniques to the growing number of people in need of knowing them . It is intended for use as a textbook for a second course in computer science , after students have acquired basic programming skills and familiarity with computer systems . The book also may be useful for self-study or as a reference for people engaged in the development of computer systems or applications programs , since it contains implemen- tations of useful algorithms and detailed information on performance characteristics and clients . The broad perspective taken makes the book an appropriate introduction to the field . THE STUDY OF ALGORITHMS AND DATA STRUCTURES is fundamental to any computer- science curriculum , but it is not just for programmers and computer-science students . Every- one who uses a computer wants it to run faster or to solve larger problems . The algorithms in this book represent a body of knowledge developed over the last 50 years that has become indispensable . From N-body simulation problems in physics to genetic-sequencing problems in molecular biology , the basic methods described here have become essential in scientific research ; from architectural modeling systems to aircraft simulation , they have become es- sential tools in engineering ; and from database systems to internet search engines they have become essential parts of modern software systems . And these are but a few examples—as the scope of computer applications continues to grow , so grows the impact of the basic methods covered here . Before developing our fundamental approach to studying algorithms , we develop data types for stacks , queues , and other low-level abstractions that we use throughout the book . Then we survey fundamental algorithms for sorting , searching , graphs , and strings . The last chapter is an overview placing the rest of the material in the book in a larger context . -- - Page 10 -- -

NLP Conference Submissions | Stanford CS224U Natural Language Understanding | Spring 2021

2023 NLP International Conference - In Conversation with ... Robert Dilts & Ian McDermott

I am absolutely delighted to be joined by Ian McDermott and Robert Dills . We probably do n't actually need any introduction . We are both presenting a joint presentation at the NLP conference in May . And we 're very excited to be hosting you both . Your topic is the expansion of agency and the evolution of consciousness . So perhaps you 'd like to start by a little bit more . Would you need to tell us more about yourselves , but just in case somebody does n't know who you are , please tell us little bit more about yourselves and your presentation . Oh good lord . Robert do you want to kick off ? Sure . So who are you ? Who am I ? Well , I 've been , you know , a developer trainer or author . Coach in the field of NLP since it 's first started . I 'm going to be for its name . I have authored quite a few books . I think it 's over 30 now on the different aspects of that . And I have been working together for 30 something years . And so , and a co founder of NLP University in Santa Cruz . So , so why do n't we do the introductions first . Then we then we can say a little bit about what topic is so Ian . Over to you . Yes , so I got into the field because I started out as a psychotherapist and I just could n't believe how theological so many psychotherapists were . Like there was the one true church of . The tea , gist out or anything else . And looking for what works seem to be an unusual thing to do at that time . Now , my hair was a different color that time . I was a bit sad you know , so let 's not go into the sort of details of my identity . But it means that having been around a long , long time in the field . I 've seen it blossom and for me that 's been wonderful because so many of the reasons I first became interested have been validated to the point where now . I seriously have a conversation with my dear colleague , Professor Patricia Riddle , who is a neuroscientist and a professor applied neuroscience . And she will tell me , oh , neuroscientist catching up with NLP . Yes , wonderful . Yes . So you all along . Yes , exactly it means that you know , working with people in organizations , families , training generations of practitioners , coaches and so forth . Just continues to be something where you feel , I feel that the ripples keep going out . We are having an influence often in ways that we 're not aware of until people come back and say , you know what you said and you ca n't even remember . So it continues . But what I wanted to do is very much in keeping with having that greater agency . And I just say that 's a good segue into what what the presentation is about . So the idea of know , so what is agency agency is you know , the sense and the knowledge that we can make a difference like in this time where we can do something and that that will ripple out . And then what is consciousness consciousness is essentially our awareness of that , our awareness of . We would say of some kind of cause and effect . Some kind of realization that what I do is going to have an impact that could have an impact . I mean , I like to think about . You know , the level of agency that I have n't , let 's say not only impacting other people , but also impacting the environment , for instance mean , I 'm aware that if I just throw this thing out the window , it 's not just now it 's gone . It 's going to cause something that can cause something I mean , that 's what we mean by by awareness that . That there is a systemic dynamic . And that in fact , the more awareness I have of that , the more choices I have , which is what . And it 'll piece kind of starting with this idea that . If you expand your map of the world , you expand the choices that are available to you . So for us , this has been an ongoing journey where it became very obvious to us many moons ago now that . We really enjoyed engaging in doing things together . But we did n't need to . We had separate lives and we go often do things in different parts of the world so forth . But there was a real plus to coming back together . So you know , that 's been a weekly commitment for literally years and years now . And in the course of that , we came to an understanding of there 's something profound here , which is not right . Let 's create a program or let 's do a course together . Did n't even need to do that on occasion to experience a certain what we ended up calling fellowship . Where we 're both in service of something bigger than ourselves . And to be in service of that is to feel uplifted by it inspired by it . And so being to have greater agency because you begin to have some sense of what you could do , even though you may not know how you 're going to do it . But first you 've got to have the consciousness to even conceive of it . And that is these different notions of agency , which is one of the things you want to share into conference . Then , in a way , and we just kind of build on what Ian is saying a way , we know we feel like our own lives in our own careers are an example of this . And so we want to share that with everybody else that we you know , we have been able to achieve things to accomplish things and have a , I think , a very , a very rich and fulfilling life , both personally and professionally think , well , want to share what that 's liked everybody and what we 've learned from these journeys is both long journeys and NLP together , both having NLP institutes , both having done training and written many books . What , what can we share back to the community , especially we , we especially are aware that our presentation one of the final one is maybe the final . We wanted to just say here 's what the way you can get the best out of what you 've just been doing in these four days of this conference . And you know , to make a better life and better world for yourself and for others . Yeah , and there 's something about when we started thinking about agency , there are , there are almost like levels of agency for one of a better description . We , we gradually started to formulate this over time that there 's an initial sort of almost nascent agency where it 's just there , is it going to it going to manifest it going to emerge . And , and if it does , then people begin to have a sense of , and they use all sorts of different words , maybe potency , maybe the ability to have some impact , whatever it may be . Now , that could just start as me on my own , I can do something , I can an impact . And of course , it 's perfectly true you know , anybody can make other people feel perfectly wretched . Well , that 's one kind of impact . That 's , that 's agency . Well , I could do something else know , we kind of have , there 's , we sort of line up four levels of consciousness , four levels of agency , and the simple way of identifying these levels of consciousness is I , we , us , and what we call an expanded us know , so , so I is , awareness of me know , that we , of course , is that we are our , our community of group , the us is , we 're serving know , that consciousness , and then there 's the expanded us , we call it , and that lines up with these of agency , the you know , talking about nascent agency , oh , that 's I can do something . Then there 's what we call the expanded and collaborative , which is we , oh , do something know , make a difference . Then there is we call the awakened agency , which has to do , sorry , awakened agency has to do with this us , us , us awareness . Again , I think this is very relevant for NLP community you know , there 's the eye in the community there 's the we there 's the us , and then the idea of the expanded us is , is it 's a course to community and bar beyond , and we would call that , we 're , for a lack of a better term at this point meta agency , the meta is gets used a little bit too much , but it 's more that again , we call the an inclusive us So , so what we want to present is that actually , and I think in our know , that , that sort of evolution is important for , for all of us , and when we , when we know can make a bigger and bigger difference in terms of what we do of what we 're learning . And I might share and then pass it back you . So when , when he and I , and I first talked after the new year , I said I said , oh , he and happy new year , and he said back . Well , what I said back was , yes , and let 's make it one for a lot of people You know , it 's that you can have the wish , which in a sense when you say new year , it could just be a platitude , but it could also be an invocation , you can invoke it , but then it 's going to be how , how does that get implemented ? When you actually enact it , that 's a different state of consciousness . And a way , it actually connects very well I think , Robert , with you know , at the end of the conference , what , what does anybody take away from a conference you know , what I met some great people , or it was very restful because I slept through most of it You know , there could be all sorts of things that you take away . But of the things I think that makes a huge difference is when you get a sense of how you could implement whatever it is you 've learned , how you can operationalize it , how do you take that into the world , and how big a world do you take it into ? So , for example know , we talk about , we make these distinctions between I , we ask and they expanded us . You could have a we is we , we are the members and then there are the outsiders one kind of kind of crappy we . The us , if the we really expands , going to be not just a few of us going to be all of us in some way or another . But then there 's a basic question often , which we sort of grapple with , we 've spoken much about this when we 're talking about each of it , the other . How big is your us would be one way of putting it ? And is that us just the cozy little fraternity , the little group who somehow or other are the special people ? Or is it the enormity of what might be and how great can our consciousness be , how much can we encompass while at the same time having a strong first position ? I think you know , I would say when I first got involved in NLP back in 1975 , when it was nothing , nobody knew about it , barely had a name , but for me , I could see there is n't there is n't us . A global us and NLP is now know , I teach it everywhere in the world . We realize oh , that , but , but you need that consciousness to think that actually it has that potential and it can do that in order to make it be that way . If you do n't have that , you 'll never even try to bring it there . So I think that , I think that 's something that our community really can continue to benefit from one of the terms that we like to use will be also going into little bit more depth on in the presentation what we call being being an activist in your own learning . So I want to be an activist of my learning instead of okay , pass passively getting at her wishing just wishing that the new year will be happy you know , like , let 's 's make it that way . And what can we do about it ? And so there 's a few other key things we 'll be talking about one you know , Ian was talking about this idea of invoking something and the end of a know , a conference , what is it that I want to invoke ? What do I want to bring into being ? But also that goes hand in hand with letting go . What do I need to let go of ? Maybe I 'm holding on to something to tightly and that 's what 's keeping me from expanding . And the other kind of principles we talk about is is dare to ask and dare to tell what I need to dare to ask I need to be curious about ? And then to dare to speak ? And I think these are going to be some of the very you know , practical active things we want to be engaging people with . Exactly . So there 's dare to ask dare to speak and dare to do . Yes there 's the activists again . And so often I think people that there 's a very strange thing that I 've encountered many times working with some of my working folks working with families . And organizations where there 's extraordinary amounts of wealth around . And yet there 's still a version of little old me . Well you know , this person may be multi million there , whatever it is . But still harborsly what can I do ? And yet from from the outside you just see , wow , this person can do pretty much anything they wanted to . The mindset is n't there to support that . And that 's when you get into you know , how big is your dream ? is your us ? And what would it be like to really seize the day and be your own learning And I think you said such interesting questions big is your eye ? You know , am I a little I think big is your we ? Who is the we here You know , is it know , this we against that we and we know how big is the us . think these are this white we mean about white consciousness is necessary for agency and vice versa . I mean that also as we make a difference , we start to awaken . And that awakening then also kind of gets into hopefully a virtuous circle . Well , indeed , and it expansion agency , evolution of consciousness , these feed on each other you know in a way it 's like a house . You want to come in , you want to get into the house , which I like to go into the front door or the back door . It really does n't matter . Yeah , we still walk into the house . So you can you can have that experience of expanded agency , which sometimes we do have when we surprise ourselves with , wow , I just did it . I made it happen . I did n't even know I could do that . And people suddenly get a new sense of their own capacity to engage with the world and have an effect . Other times that then affects their consciousness . Other times it 's just let 's say they 'd been harassed and that tends to result in the kind of constriction . And when that is eased out , suddenly new action is possible , new ways of behaving become available because there 's no longer tight . You could start any plays , but this is worth having . That 's why want to share it because we get it not by sitting on our own , not by doing a lot of work furiously to try harder . What we actually do is we just in touch and have a lot of good time , frankly . I would just want to say of the things to with that , with that aspect is know , there are ways that people get agency that does not expand consciousness . And I realized , think it 's even one of the complaints sometimes about NLP You know , I 've just learned a technique I mean , it could be know , what are tapping or egg , but so I , but my consciousness has n't really expanded . And I , I realized that for me , the things that I wanted to contribute and develop . Yeah , I 'm not just , okay , I can now do something . Okay , take a pill , but I have , but I do n't change anything . I have n't learned have n't I 'm not going to make my life or anybody else 's life better 's why we like to put those together that I think NLP can bring both I mean , NLP is such a fabulous tool for , for mindfulness , expanding mindfulness and expanding , expanding awareness . So that 's why we link those together And I think we say you know , when you have expanded agency without consciousness , that 's where you can do great you know , great harm . You become an intuitive I think you also do a lot of doing , it 's , it 's like , and now for my next amazing trick , 'm going to do this trick . And it goes on and on . As opposed to you know , if you , in my experience , anyway , take a training context , which is after all , where often NLP is happening You know , any demonstration worth it 's salt will not be just a demonstration of it is you 're demonstrating , but it will have some profound effect . And it will touch the heart of the group . So it touches the group . It touches the consciousness the group . And you can feel this . If you 're in the room , feel this . And it 's really when you 're online , it makes not a jot of difference . That suddenly everybody is , wow . And I 've seen this example , you can have somebody who maybe has been an irritant in a . And you do a demo . And suddenly the person is just embraced as , OK. And our humanity expands . Yeah , because we have understood more . Yeah , that 's worth having . I 'm sorry , Karen . We , I realize Robert Yeah , we we , we get to question the other question . Is there anything you want to ask ? I love , , I love the idea of it 's the both end of Brothers and the either rule . Yes . Oh , definitely So , so thank you So , so dare I ask what was an advocate to take away from your session . All right , number one , you will become an activist of your own I mean , no that , but that could actually be the things you you know , you 're less of a passive consumer . Because we can all fall into that role . Yeah . But what do you really want to take away and make your own ? What will serve you well that you may serve us ? Yeah We , we actually have some several things that we , we anticipating this question . And one of it is you know , one of this is , is what 're going to walk away with . You 're going to become more of your own learning and in your life You know , to be able to make more the best use what you 've been experiencing and learning from the conference . To be more effectively and consistently implement and operationalize the patterns that people have learned know , we like to know , we 're a little bit provocative . Stop the lie . Yeah . What is the lie ? How small we are . Yeah . Yeah . Because we 're not . Yeah . And we owe this . We know this . All you got to do is think about how easy is it for you to wreck someone 's day ? Okay . It 's a weird thing , but you often choose the negative example is to make the point And in the same way , you could actually , you could lot of good , if you wish And it 's not about , oh , yes , if only I had massive net wealth , that would be huge . You do . It 's just not money . Yes . Yes . It 's interesting And , and having the massive wealth as you were pointing out , Ian , is no guarantee that you 're a going be able to do anything more . Be any happier you know , be any more fulfilled know think that 's a very important thing important thing . Because we both work with very high network people who are extremely unhappy . Have very little sense of agency . But , but you know , on a , on another level of care . So people obviously will be walking away with the kind of this , this , this map and a model . Of you know , levels of consciousness levels of agency And , and of course , some questions and tools for well , okay , how do I how do I accomplish some of this expansion ? , that 's what we , Ian and I know we , we make our living doing is helping people expand their consciousness and their agency . So they can really become more of their potential and , and be the best version of themself that they can in any particular context And 's what we would like people away . Exactly . Because I think the reason we wanted to do this at the end is it 's potentially a useful filter . If you 've been having an experience over days of whatever duration , where you can just filter it in terms of , so what are we going to take away that will be something I can implement in ways that are meaningful to me . That has an effect on how I think about things , how I experience life , how I metabolize life . And that will then have an effect on those around me as well . So way , it can be a useful review process . What can I take away and then , and then following can I do with it ? What am I going to with it ? And what want to bring as a result of this ? What has been inspired in me ? And how to do it ? And that involves , if we say it 's this interesting thing , I 'm , okay , what do I might , what might let go of to keeping me small ? Yeah . So you could end up with greater clarity about what 's important right now for you to both embrace and also to that go . Absolutely . As you say , perfect timing for your presentation . So apart from people attending the first three days , three and a half days the conference , so that they 've got some learnings to embrace during your session Is there anything else that delegates can do beforehand so that they get a deeper experience , a deeper understanding during your session ? Well , one thing I can certainly advise is there is a rapport article coming out that will kind of outline some of these and there have been some previous ones actually this there 's been a series where we 've kind of talked about ones devoted to this idea of what we were calling nace and agency others are expanded . So those would be some really interesting ways because there 's a lot of questions there and also gives background to what we 're doing . So re rapport magazine . One one . So that we balanced that up . And my response would be of course , if that 's what you want to do you know , read your head off by means . But the same time , yeah , my suggestion if you want to be fully prepared for this session intensive study may not be required . You may just need to turn up . People are leading busy lives . People got way too many agendas already . So there could be something about . Yes , be fully prepared . Come and be present And think this is that these are the two dimensions of being the own learning . Exactly . Activists of my And I think as Ian is pointing out activism does n't always mean in know , what activity with no with no purpose know , I mean it and sometimes as he says it 's about I 've got to just be as present as I can . So I do know , this you know , our goal is maximize 're be able to take from that conference . And so I think certainly attending the the sessions that are interesting and inspiring to you are very important . But then yeah , do n't try to put too much pressure . And then you can go and go and go . If I do n't do this , I wo n't get anything . So maybe maybe one of the questions I sometimes ask myself know , in this situation , how would I be and what would I do if I trust ? And that 's an interesting question . If I actually trust I 'm not not going to like be OCD about everything . I 'm actually know , be more in my state of flow . Yeah . That 's where we end this time anyway to see you in the flow . Beautiful . Thank you . So I mean , a cheeky question from me . I 've met you both at many conferences before . And you 've presented you were actually the master class in 2018 I think it was . That 's right . So what does the NLP international conference mean to you guys ? Oh , go to me , it 's symbolizes the best aspirations of NLP to be international . That is to say 's a very big us . We confer we come together . Now , coming together is inclusive . It 's not that we 're all the same . There 's a celebration of diversity And it 's an interesting combination of there are more people who want to present that they could possibly be accommodated . So you end up with inclusiveness and rigor . Now put those two together to me . Conference represents is inclusiveness , rigor and heart . Without the heart , it 's just a conference . But with the heart , you can make things happen then ripple out for years And I just feel privileged to be a part of it . I me , I really like , mean , I think Ian put it well and he said it represents the best aspiration of NLP . And I feel you know , about people coming together . Of people sharing in an attitude know , we were just talking about presence , but also respect . Where know , we are like even saying , it 's what 're talking about moving from I to we to us so there 's an exchange . I 'm going to go away from the conference with more awareness mean , I have learned things that I am from people that are passionate about things and developing things that I would never have the time or the capacity to do . And in doing so going to be enriched and that enrichment of myself is going to be something that I can share with others think that 's what conferences are for You know , Karen , know , you have know , in my view , I think you just have you and you embody what that spirit is And , I 'm glad you said that Robert because I was going to circle back and say it 's all very well to talk about conferences , but end of the day , there are people who make conferences happen . Yeah . Having been involved in making conferences happen . I know how much goes into it and it is a label of love . Yeah . So the other thing that know , be conference means to both Robert and me because we 've talked about this . Yes . Is the personal commitment of you and your team , you cash and the team that puts this together who you know , does n't need to be visible . Yeah Thank you . That 's a very elevated kind of eye to we do Thank you Thank you . I think know , we do what we do because you do what you do . So it 's that perpetual circle like a cycle , I think . The virtual circle Yeah . So thank you , Ian and Robert , really appreciate your time . So just to remind everybody Ian and Robert are closing the conference in May with a perfect presentation , consciousness . And you will be presenting at 1730 BST on Sunday , the 21st of May And that is a cleanery session for all conference attendees going to be a wonderful end to the conference . Thank you both so much for doing that for us And we 're all with us in May . Yes . Till then Till then .

Stanford XCS224U : NLU I Presenting Your Research , Part 3 : NLP Conference Submission I Spring 2023

Sebastian Ruder | Scaling NLP to the World 's Languages | Rise of AI Conference 2022

NLP Conference Presentation - Using Modal Predicates

